# Investigate and Implementation of KNN Classifier

## Implementation

The Neocortex API is seamlessly integrated with a robust Machine Learning Classifier, specifically the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) Classifier. The dataset itself is extracted from the predicted cells generated by sequences of numbers, encompassing classifications for Even number, Odd number, and Decimal numbers which is consider neither odd nor even derived from the Multisequence Learning Experiment within the Neocortex API. Each classification is preassigned a label: S1 for Even, S2 for Odd, and S3 for Neither Odd nor Even which is the sequence name of the SDR's. To ensure the model learns well and can predict accurately, we split the dataset into two parts: training and testing. The training part helps the model understand patterns in the data. Once it's trained, it's ready to classify the testing data accurately. This way, we can predict the right labels of testing data. 


**For Example:**

The Neocortex API generates three sequences of numbers, categorizing them as Even, Odd, or decimal numbers, which serve as predicted cells for creating a comprehensive dataset for model training.

The process begins with the utilization of the LoadDataset(Datasetfilepath) method from class Classifierleaning, which enables the model to ingest and comprehend the dataset from a specified JSON file path. Following this, the dataset is partitioned into a 70-30 ratio using the SplitDataset(sequenceDataEntries, out trainingfeatures, out testing features, out traininglabels, out testinglabels) method from same class Classifierleaning.

The 70% of the data is allocated for training the Classifier model, allowing it to discern intricate patterns and relationships inherent in the dataset. Meanwhile, the remaining 30% is reserved for assessing the model's performance.

During the testing phase, the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) Classifier employs the Classifier(testingFeatures, trainingFeatures, trainingLabels, k: 3) method from class KNNClassifier to predict the labels of the testing data.

To evaluate the model's accuracy, the predicted labels are compare with the actual labels extracted from the training dataset. This comparison is accomplished through the CalculateAccuracy(predictedLabels, testingLabels) method from Class KNNClassifier, which quantifies the accuracy of the model's predictions, providing valuable insights into its efficacy and performance.
    

_**Sample Data**_


```
 training data = [
  {
    "SequenceName": "S1",
    "SequenceData": [8039, 8738, 9334, 9558, 9604, 9697, 9772, 9841, 9851, 9922, 9963, 10023, 10121, 10197, 10373, 10459, 10594, 10629, 10664, 11124]
  },
{
    "SequenceName": "S2",
    "SequenceData": [9051, 9075, 9133, 9178, 9365, 9448, 9481, 9599, 9635, 9740, 10032, 10224, 10281, 10762, 10778, 10934, 11143, 11306, 11494, 11763]
  },
{
    "SequenceName": "S3",
    "SequenceData": [10808, 10834, 11053, 11085, 11434, 11471, 11479, 11553, 11597, 11634, 11720, 11743, 11766, 11812, 11872, 11897, 11909, 12094, 12332, 12504]
  }, ...
]

```

```
 testing Data = [
    {
    "SequenceName": "S1",
    "SequenceData": [7665, 8260, 8304, 8495, 9285, 9366, 9388, 9603, 9641, 9707, 9774, 9819, 9837, 10020, 10096, 10149, 10263, 10313, 10873, 10914]
  }
  ]



```

Here's the verdict: The model has predicted the testing data is of sequence 1 or S1, representing the even number sequence SDR's.

The output includes the label class of the testing data and the accuracy of the model.

## Getting Started:

Navigate to the `Myproject` folder, located one level above the current directory. Inside `Myproject`, find a folder named `KNN`, and within that, you'll see another folder named `KNNImplementation`.

Once you're in the `KNNImplementation` folder, execute the `Program.cs` file to launch the KNN Classifier.

```bash
dotnet run --project "..Myproject\KNN\KNNImplementation\KNNImplementation.csproj"
```

Path to the
Project: [KNNClassifier.cs](https://github.com/zakaahmadchishti/Global_Variables/blob/Muhammadharis/Myproject/KNN/KNNImplementation/KNNClassifier.cs)

## Interface

The interface is being authored within the `KNNImplementation` folder, with the file named `IClassifier.cs`

Path to the 
Interface: [IClassifier.cs](https://github.com/zakaahmadchishti/Global_Variables/blob/Muhammadharis/Myproject/KNN/KNNImplementation/IClassifierKNN.cs)

## Testing

The unit tests are conducted within the `KNNUnitTest` folder, which is located one level above. To initiate the unit tests, execute the `UnitTest.cs` file

Path to the Unit
test: [UnitTest.cs](https://github.com/zakaahmadchishti/Global_Variables/blob/Muhammadharis/Myproject/KNN/KNNUnitTest/UnitTest.cs )

## Dataset

The dataset is generated and stored in a file named `Dataset_KNN.json`, located within the Dataset folder found inside the `KNNImplementation` folder.

Path to the
Dataset: [Dataset_KNN.json](https://github.com/zakaahmadchishti/Global_Variables/blob/Muhammadharis/Myproject/KNN/KNNImplementation/Dataset/Dataset_KNN.json) 
